Background Information 
The National Hockey League (NHL) is a physically demanding league where players can play up to 82 games. Each game is 3 20-minute periods, not including overtime and shootout if necessary. One of the most significant factors affecting player performance is the grueling travel induced in the 82-game schedule. The NHL features extensive cross-country travel, time change zones, and back-to-back games. These are all major factors that effect performance. Travel disrupts athletes' recovery process which is essential to reach peak performance. NHL teams play multiple road games in a week, sometimes in different time zones, this requires long flights and bus rides. Additionally late nights, early morning, hotel stays and irregular sleep schedules. All of these factors lead to a home-ice advantage as well as travel disparities. A big example I found is that Western Conference teams such as the Vancouver Canucks or LA kings often have to travel long periods of times to play Eastern Conference teams like Toronto and Montreal.  

Datasets 
Charest, J., Cook, J. D., Bender, A. M., Walch, O., Grandner, M. A., & Samuels, C. H. (2022). Associations between time zone changes, travel distance and performance: A retrospective analysis of 2013–2020 National Hockey League Data. Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport, 25(12), 1008–1016. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsams.2022.10.005  

MacIntyre, I. (2008). Canucks using bracelets to study players’ fatigue levels during travel. In CanWest News. Postmedia Network Inc.  

Kneeland, A. T. (2014). Man Games Lost in the NHL: A Correlation between Travel, Rest, Periods and Injuries in the National Hockey League. Sport Management Undergraduate. https://fisherpub.sjf.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1007&context=sport_undergrad.  
